Pope Francis meanwhile has called for an
an end to the attacks and violence in
Israel in an address to the crowd at St
Peters Square he expressed his
solidarity with the victims the head of
the Catholic Church said fighting will
not solve any
problems let the attacks and weapons
cease please because it must be
understood that terrorism and War bring
no Solutions but only the death and
suffering of many innocent lives war is
a defeat every war is a defeat let us
pray for peace in Israel and
Palestine and this was the scene in
Istanbul where thousands of people
marched to show their support for
Palestinian Fighters many also waved
Palestinian flags and chanted slogans in
support of
Hamas Turkish president Reb Ty erdogan
is urging both sides to deescalate
tensions erdogan says turkey air will
ramp up its diplomatic efforts to
achieve
calm
on behalf of Tura and in light of this
morning's events in Israel we invite all
parties to act reasonably and to stay
away from impulsive steps that raise
tensions rallies were also held in
Yemen's Capital Santa people celebrated
what's been known or become to be known
as Al AXA flood military operation by
Hamas and in Kuwait crowds also marched
in support for Palestinians in Gaza
let's head to the US now where President
Joe Biden has been speaking on the phone
with Benjamin Netanyahu our state
department correspondent Roselyn Jordan
joins us live now from Washington DC Ros
what more do we know about the content
of this phone
call well according to a statement just
released by The White House the US
President Joe Biden told the Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that the US
stands with Israel and that military
assistance which Israel has requested
for its Defense Forces is on its way to
Israel we don't know specifically what
is being sent but it is worth pointing
out that the Pentagon has uh said in the
past uh day or so that the defense
secretary Lloyd Austin is Consulting
with yav galad the Israeli defense
minister about what uh support the uh
Defense Forces need in order to repel
this attack that was launched by Hamas
early on Saturday we also uh note from
the White House statement that the
president said that active diplomacy has
been conducted and continues to be
conducted in order to try to bring this
war between Hamas and Israel to a swift
conclusion without further loss of life
and certainly to uh try to uh help
recover those persons who were kidnapped
by Hamas and taken to to Gaza in the
last 24 hours plenty of moving parts to
the story thank you so much rosin Jordan
live for us there let's bring in sheab
branzi who joins us from the UN the
United Nations security Council will
hold an emergency meeting very shortly
sheab what are we expecting if anything
in terms of its power to deescalate the
situation well we expect that meeting in
about an hour and a half's time just
over an hour and a half it's interesting
the format of the meeting has led to
some questions as to what exactly can be
achieved in a from a from a security
from the security Council in its
official capacity because originally we
understand the that malter asked for
this to be a private meeting of the UN
Security Council so that is a closed
meeting the public wouldn't be able to
see what was going on but that the
affected parties in this crisis Israel
and Palestine would be able to attend
and participate but then that was
changed to Clos consultations of the UN
Security Council so that is not a formal
meeting of the UN Security Council and
only the current members of the UN
Security Council can participate not the
Israeli and pal the Israeli and
Palestinian representatives to the UN we
expect them to be briefed by the UN
special representative for Middle East
peace the Middle East peace process to
wenner's land beyond that we don't have
much more information as to what's on
the agenda we do know however that the
Israeli ambassador to the UN is about to
speak to reporters outside the security
Council within the next 10 minutes we'll
be looking at that we'll also be trying
to catch representatives from the
various missions on their way into their
security council meeting we've been
hearing particularly from Amnesty
International and other International
organizations that the root causes of
this violence need to be addressed I
mean How likely is that going to be the
case at this
meeting currently though we've just had
very kind of boilerplate condemnations
from certainly the Western Nations and
Brazil against hamas's incursion into
Israel the UAE has asked for a
resumption or reinvigoration of What's
called the quartet that is the UN the US
EU and Russia which was supposedly
overseeing some sort of peace process
but clearly you know what's clear is and
what I think a lot of the reporting and
the and the guests you've been talking
to have said is there has been the sense
of complacence see that this is all
basically this is all just going to keep
quiet I to be honest actually there's
that pivotal moment of the UN General
Assembly right here just just last month
when Netanyahu the the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu brandished a
map of the new Middle East at the UN
General Assembly on which there was no
mention of the Palestinians it was just
various Arab states and Israel and you
have to look back then at that pivotal
moment of the UN General Assembly as to
I think we we'll all be looking back at
that particular moment clearly as far as
Benjamin Netanyahu was concerned the
Palestinian question was over but
clearly Hamas had other ideas the
historical context must be considered
you're right thank you so much sheab
branzi at the United Nations for us
let's head to London now where Harry
forcett is standing by Harry a number of
European nations have increased their
security as a result of this conflict in
the past two days how are they trying to
reassure their
citizens uh that's right a number of
European nations talking about the
potential threats to their Jewish
citizens the Jewish communities so we've
heard from the French that they plan to
increase protection at schools and
synagogues the police here in London
talking about increased patrols and also
planning for potential uh protests in
the coming days uh presumably looking
forward to the kind of Israeli attack on
Gaza that we might be expecting in the
coming days and any protests against
that also so in the last few minutes
we've seen a video from the British
prime minister Rishi sunak in which he
talked about this being no moment for
equivocation and that he would be
unequivocal in blaming Hamas and its
supporters for what was taking place
inside Israel Palestine at the moment
also saying that he'd spoken to the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and offered Britain steadfast
support and any assistance that Israel
might need that was one of four
conversations that the Israeli Prime
Minister had during the course of the
afternoon on Sunday he also spoke to the
German leader uh the Ukrainian president
and the prime minister of Italy as well
and so there is this continued very
strong support for Israel and very
strong condemnation of the kind of
largescale Civilian killing that was
carried out by those Hamas fighters on
Saturday and also the uh kidnappings of
some of those people and the taking them
inside Gaza uh there are certainly
growing reports that many of those
people or Le several of them may be
foreign Nationals uh there is one
missing Britain for example so
increasing levels of concern there's
also been one line from the United
Nations world food program based in Rome
they are calling for the opening and the
maintaining of a humanitarian food
Corridor into Gaza uh ahead of what
everyone is expecting to be this very
large scale ramping up of the Israeli
military action really appreciate the
update Harry forcet in London for us